Pulumi + Gitlab better than ever blog (#14380)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/gitlab-better-than-ever/index.md

---
title: "Pulumi + Gitlab: Better Than Ever"
date: 2025-03-14
draft: false
meta_desc: Pulumi's integration with GitLab has reached new heights with a suite of powerful enhancements designed to streamline your infrastructure as code workflows.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - meagan-cojocar
    - derek-schaller
tags:
    - gitlab
    - integrations
    - pulumi-cloud
    - releases
    - features
social:
    twitter: "Pulumi's GitLab integration just got a major upgrade! Enhanced merge request comments, first-class VCS support, and organizational templates make managing cloud infrastructure easier than ever."
    linkedin: "We're excited to announce significant improvements to Pulumi's GitLab integration. From enhanced merge request comments to organizational templates, these updates make managing cloud infrastructure with Pulumi and GitLab more seamless than ever before."
---

> Pulumi's integration with GitLab has reached new heights with enhancements designed to streamline your infrastructure as code workflows. Today, we're excited to announce several significant improvements to our GitLab integration that make managing cloud infrastructure with Pulumi and GitLab more seamless than ever before: enhanced merge request comments GitLab as a first-class VCS in Pulumi Cloud, organizational templates in GitLab, and later this year, Pulumi Deployments for GitLab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi's integration with GitLab has reached new heights with enhancements designed to streamline your infrastructure as code workflows. Today, we're excited to announce several significant improvements to our GitLab integration that make managing cloud infrastructure with Pulumi and GitLab more seamless than ever before: GitLab as a first-class VCS in Pulumi Cloud, enhanced merge request comments, organizational templates in GitLab, and later this year, Pulumi Deployments for GitLab.
```

<!--more-->

Pulumi and GitLab have long enjoyed a productive partnership. From supporting GitLab sign-in to enabling GitLab CI/CD pipelines for infrastructure deployments, we've consistently worked to ensure GitLab users can leverage Pulumi's powerful infrastructure as code capabilities within their existing workflows.

Our GitLab Merge Request integration allows teams to visualize infrastructure changes directly within merge requests, making code reviews more effective and infrastructure changes more transparent.

## What's New in Our GitLab Integration

### Enhanced Merge Request Comments

> We've revamped how Pulumi interacts with GitLab merge requests by building a Gitlab application to handle the authentication. Previously, only customers using Gitlab as an identity provider to Pulumi Cloud could leverage it. Now, Pulumi provides even more detailed and actionable comments on your merge requests, giving reviewers comprehensive insights into proposed infrastructure changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've revamped how Pulumi interacts with GitLab by building a Gitlab application to handle the authentication. Previously, only customers using Gitlab as an identity provider to Pulumi Cloud could leverage it. Now, Pulumi provides even more detailed and actionable comments on your merge requests, giving reviewers comprehensive insights into proposed infrastructure changes.
```

These comments include:

- Streamlined discoverability of infrastructure changes
- Resource-by-resource breakdown of changes
- Direct links to the Pulumi Console for deeper analysis

![Enhanced GitLab Merge Request Comments](diff-comment.png)

> To configure this integration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the GitLab integration:
```

1. Navigate to **Organization Settings → Integrations** in Pulumi Cloud
2. Select GitLab and enter your access token
3. Choose which projects or groups should receive Pulumi comments

### GitLab as a First-Class VCS in Pulumi Cloud

> Version control system is now a first-class, configurable concept in Pulumi Cloud. When you select GitLab as your VCS, the Pulumi Cloud interface adapts to show only relevant options and terminology, creating a more intuitive experience for GitLab users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version control systems are a first-class, configurable concept in Pulumi Cloud. When you select GitLab as your VCS, the Pulumi Cloud interface adapts to show only relevant options and terminology, creating a more intuitive experience for GitLab users.
```

This integration enables:

- Direct linking to GitLab repositories, branches, and commits
- Automatic detection of Pulumi projects in GitLab repositories
- Streamlined setup for GitLab-based CI/CD workflows, using the CI/CD wizard on a stack's page

### Organizational Templates in GitLab

> Pulumi Cloud now fully supports organizational templates stored in GitLab repositories. This powerful feature allows platform teams to define standardized infrastructure templates that developers across the organization can easily discover and use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi Cloud now fully supports [organizational templates](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/pulumi-cloud/developer-portals/templates/#using-organization-templates-within-your-pulumi-organization) stored in GitLab repositories. This powerful feature allows platform teams to define standardized infrastructure templates that developers across the organization can easily discover and use to create new projects.
```

Once a GitLab repository is registered as a template source, Pulumi automatically detects `pulumi.yaml` files and surfaces them in the template gallery. These templates can be:

- Public or private repositories
- Subject to Pulumi's role-based access control (RBAC)
- Available in both the UI and CLI via `pulumi new`

This integration makes it easier than ever to standardize infrastructure patterns across your organization while leveraging GitLab for version control and collaboration.

## Coming Soon: Pulumi Deployments for GitLab

> We're also hopeful that [Pulumi Deployments](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments) will soon support GitLab, enabling fully automated infrastructure provisioning directly from your GitLab pipelines. This integration will provide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pulumi Deployments](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments) will also soon support GitLab, enabling fully automated infrastructure provisioning directly from your GitLab pipelines. This integration will provide:
```

- Fully managed compute for running Pulumi operations
- Click to deploy self service workflows in the Pulumi Cloud UI
- Rich new out of the box functionality like Time to Live Stacks, Drift Detection, Click to Deploy, Git Push to Deploy, Review Stacks and Scheduled Deployments.

> All this functionality is available today by specifying the raw git credentials, but we hope to make the integration more frictionless to set up in the future. To learn more about Pulumi Deployments read our [Pulumi Deployments documentation](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All this functionality is available today by specifying the raw git credentials, but we look forward to making the integration frictionless in the future. To learn more about Pulumi Deployments read our [Pulumi Deployments documentation](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments).
```
